Now let's implement the login page and the login functionality.
Now the login page is going to be something similar to the signup page.
Like we will have the inputs, email and password inputs only.
We will not have the username or password repeat.
So generally it will be same.
Other than these two inputs.
So we will be doing the same tests like checking the existence of these inputs.
And also again, we will start with the button to be disabled.
Then it will be enabled after the user of the user enters values into the inputs.
So we will take the sign up page as a reference for this one.
First, let's open the login component spec and at the moment we have this default test, but we will
start the test layout test and we can use the sign up test as a reference.
So we have the described block for layout.
So here I'm just going to copy all the content of this, describe layout.
And here I just removing the default test and pasting to this one.
Now we are going to go over these tests and we will update their descriptions and the query text or
the variables we have here.
But let's also make sure the car window is visible at this point.
I didn't save the test yet, so we don't see the result.
But at the moment they are going to fail because we have nothing in the login page.
So let's start with this one.
It is saying it is sign up.
We can just rename all the sign ups with log in here.
So hitting command shift or control shift in windows L Command shift L or control shift l to select
all the occurrences of this sign up text and just typing login.
So this is replacing all the sign ups with the login.
And also I would like to rename the the variable we are using in the test.
So again, command shift L or control shift L and this is going to be, let's say, login page.
So this is the first test.
This is checking the visibility of the log in header.
So we are going to have an H one.
Then the next one is for the username.
You are not going to have a username, just removing that one and the other one is for the email input.
We will have email input and we will have password input and password input.
We'll have the password type.
So keeping this test as well, but removing the password, repeat input test and password type check
for the password.
Repeat input.
And then we are checking the login button.
And the last one is he disables the button initially so we are checking this buttons disabled attribute.
So these are the tests.
We can either go one by one, like we can focus to a single one of them by adding F to the test it.
So just saving like this.
So the first test has f a focus to it.
Saving like this.
So here in the output we see only one test run.
The others are skipped.
And if we check the spec list here, the tests are grayed out because Sharma didn't run those and in
this one we are checking the header to have the login.
But in log in component the template, we have this header.
So this query is basically returning the element, but the text is not the text we are looking for.
It is login page so like we can fix it by having the login text.
Only now the test is pressing.
But again we are going to apply the same styling just like we did for the signup component.
So opening that template file.
So in a route we have this diff and it has the style.
This is putting the main content into center of the page.
And also we have this test ID, we are not going to have a case to show the content conditionally.
We will just display the the login form in this one.
And here we have another div and this is the component wrapping the form and this is CART.
So we're just going to copy this route and the other two divs which are for cart and cart header.
So just copying those.
Based in here.
Let's make sure we properly close all these elements.
So this is the road.
This is the cart.
And this is the header.
Now, we are not going to have this one to take the test.
It will be a login page.
We are using this one in the routing test in the component spec RTS and the header will be logging.
So now we don't need this one.
Let's save it.
And the test is still passing.
And if you check the browser here we have this login header.
So similar to the signup like there is this card header containing the header of this form.
Now let's fix the next test.
So let's focus to the it a male input test, saving it.
So this is failing.
So we are going to have an input.
Again, I'm just going to use the sign up.
So this was for the the the email input, but there is this form right here.
So just I'm just going to copy form and the input, including the email.
I will clear the content later.
So we are going to put those after the card header.
This is the card header and pasting after that and this is the the form.
We are not going to do this at the moment and we don't need the username input.
So we have this div, this is for email and let's not go into the error cases and let's not have anything
about the form control thing.
And this is the error, the validation error part.
So let's remove that one as well.
And this is showing error because the form is not closed.
So just closing form here.
So we have email label and corresponding email input, let's say this one.
So it is also passing and here we see the email input.
Let's go to the next test.
So focusing to the password input.
And we will add a new.
Dev.
This is for password and label.
Text will be password.
And this is passing and here we have the password.
But this is having clear text.
So let's have the next test focusing to it has password type for password input.
So mask the the password.
So for this input, we will set the type to password.
So this is passing and here we see it is mask now and the next test is for button and this button will
be disabled initially.
So I'm just removing the F.
So this will be running all the tests.
The button test will fail, but we will fix those.
So we have two failures and those are the logging component layout has log in button and disables the
button initially is so these two tests are failing.
So after the the the inputs we will have let's go again let's check the signup component.
So we have this app button, but we also wrap it with this div to make it in the center.
So I'm just going to do the same thing, just copying this one and pasting here.
And so we have two tests running to this failing.
The other one is for the disabled check so we can just assign value through to make this one disabled.
And at the moment we don't have the API progress of just removing it.
And this is going to be log in button saving this one.
So the test is still failing.
But if you check the browser, we see the button is there and it is disabled.
Tests are failing because if you check the console of the karma here we are seeing an error about not
a unknown element for this button.
And this is something we should be familiar with at this point.
So in this test, we are not declaring the the button.
And if we check the sign up component spec.
Basically we were using this shared module which was exporting the alert and the button and we are going
to use the same module in the login as well.
So we are going to import shared module.
Saving this one.
And now the tests are passing.
So we have completed the layout part and now we are going to handle the interactions.
Again, I'm just going to take the sign up compound as reference.
So in this one, we were filling the form.
We had this common functions that are form, and we were using this one to to fill the form.
And then we were clicking the button to make the API request.
So we will do the same thing in this one as well.
So let's start with the first interactions test.
So I'm not going to copy all of them, but I will just copy the setup form and the first test.
So just copying these and let's have a describe look here.
This is interactions and pasting this one.
At the moment we are not using the activities in control, but later we will.
So that's imported.
But also you must be updating configuration part here as well.
Since we are injecting this testing controller, let's make sure we are importing the HTTP client module.
It is the blind tasting module.
So.
Here.
We are going to use this later.
And in this one we don't have the username removing that line.
We don't need password repeat.
So we have email input and password input and we are filling the form with these values and we have
the button.
So in this one it enables the button when all the fields have valid input.
So these are the valid input and let's save this one.
This is failing enables the button when all fields have valid input and let's open the component.
The logging component is now like disabled is by default.
True, there is no logic for this one.
But let's open the component class and let's add the is disabled logic here.
So first thing is we need to have the values of the email and password.
Let's say they are going to be initially empty and this is going to be like this is disabled control
is basically be checking the values of those.
So if we have value for email and password, then the button will not be disabled.
Otherwise if we don't have value for this email or this password.
So if you don't have a value for email or password, then we will be setting the button to be disabled.
So it's going to be like this.
Let's say this changes.
So at the moment we have the logic to update the buttons disabled property, but we are not taking the
values of the email and password in sign up component.
So in a combination email we use the the reactive forms approach.
Like here we have the, the form element in the sign up component is right here we have the form and
in it we have the form controls like the username email.
And we were associating these inputs with these names like the form form control name username is pointing
to the username form control we have here.
But in log in page, let's go with the template driven form.
We have practiced this one previously, but let's say if these two forms sign up and log in to include
like different type of form approaches in Angular.
So we keep this example in the course repo for the template driven form.
We are associating the inputs with the, the properties in the class via the.
We are using two way, two way binding with this energy model.
And this energy model is basically associating this input with the property.
And for this one, this is the email.
The property is email.
But here we are seeing an error because energy model is not a known property at the moment.
This is coming with the let's open the app module and import for the template.
Even forms we import form forms module.
So let's save this one and now that error is gone.
But this is not enough to associate the the input with the.
The property in the Logan component is one.
We also need to define the name property for the for this input and the name is again going to be this
name email.
So it is very we are taking the values from this email to this property and let's do the same thing
for passwords input as well.
So this is.
I'm going to be having Angie model for password and name will be password.
So whenever we type to these inputs, those values will be stored here, here.
And when this is disabled code, basically it will be checking their values and.
Updating these buttons disabled status.
So let's say the changes.
Now we have a couple of failures.
One of them is because now we are dependent onto this firm's model.
But in the EV component, we didn't import those.
But if you run only the test, this login component test, let's focus to this one.
So this one is also failing.
And that's because, again, if we open the console here, we are seeing this engine model is not a
known property for this input.
So just like importing the forms module in the app, we need to import it here as well from this module.
So let's say this one.
So the test is passing now.
So this is fixed and let's fix the others.
So if you check the spec list here, the one failing is in the app component.
And that's it.
So we have two failures in the app component.
So just opening the app component spec TS and here in the imports, let's also import the forms module
saving this one.
And now all the tests are passing.
So we fixed the first test for the interaction.
By the way, I forget to refactor these.
Like, let's have a proper naming here.
So selecting the sign up and it's going to be look in page.
Let's save this.
By the way, there is a detail here.
We have this fixture when stable call and we just copied it from the sign up component spec right here
in the interactions.
Now basically we have added this one when we were implementing the signup page in template driven form.
So this is needed for template driven form.
It is not actually needed for the reactive forms.
So we don't need this line anymore.
Like we should have removed it right after we switch from template driven form to a reactive form.
So let's, let's remove that to see it's not causing any problem.
Problem.
Let's say this.
And here we see the Death Star passing.
But if we remove it from the component spec, let's comment this out.
Now we have failure and the failure is this one interactions enables button because now the the form
like we are updating the form input but the form is not stable at that point.
So we, we must be waiting for that template driven form to be stable before interacting with it.
So that's why we need this thing.
So saving this one once again to make sure it is working.
And the tests are passing.
Now we are going to make the API request and again, I'm going to copy the test from.
And sign up component.
So we are enabling the button, then we are making the HTTP request.
So just copying this one and.
Pasting after this enabled test.
So in this one, we are going to send email and password only because we, we only have those inputs.
So we are feeling the form clicking the button.
Now the end point is like this API one zero both and the request body will be like this.
There will be email and password.
So let's say this one.
Okay.
So this is failing.
So we are going to have an HTP request and so far we gathered all of them in the user service right
here.
And let's add another one here.
Let's go.
This one is authenticate and we are going to be passing email and password to this function and we are
going to return this HTTP client.
We are going to send a post request to this endpoint API one zero old and the request body will be containing
the email and password.
So that's what we are asserting here.
So we have the function now we are going to use this one in, in the log in page.
So opening the log in component.
Yes, let's inject user service here.
And let's have a function.
On Click Login we will call this one after clicking the button and we are going to call user service
authenticate bypassing the email this email.
And this password and this is observable.
So to trick the the certificates, we need to subscribe to it even.
We don't need to we don't need the response at the moment.
We have to subscribe to it.
Now we have the function and we are going to call this one in log in component and in again let's open
the sign of component.
We have the submit and submit assignment for the form.
We didn't associate the click event of the button.
Let's go like this, like this approach again.
So in logging component for the form, let's have the IMG submit.
Let's bind to this event and whenever we are submitting the form we will call on Click Login.
Let's say the changes.
And tests are passing and let's add the next test.
So again in sign up, we are checking button to be disabled when there is an ongoing API call.
So copying this and pasting after our last test.
So we don't have anything specific to sign up in this test.
We are just filling the form clicking button twice and we are expecting the request to be going to this
one, but we are expecting only one request to be sent and we also expect this button to be disabled
saving this one.
So the test is failing because there are two requests going to this end.
Basically, each click is processed and that means we are not disabling the button.
So let's fix it.
So in logging component, we need to keep track of the API progress.
So let's have a proper API progress and let's say initially it's going to be false, but after we click
to the button, let's set it to true and let's use it in the component button here so that it is disabled
based on this is disabled logic or.
API progress.
We can also use the API progress here in this part as well, but it's basically up to you how you would
want to implement the things saving the changes.
And the tests are passing and let's add the next test and we have the test for the spinner.
So just copying this spinner to test it is placement or after clicking the submit
here, pasting it in display spinner after clicking something.
So this is the looking page.
So we are filling the form before we click the button, we are checking the spinner visibility.
It should be false.
It shouldn't be there.
Then after clicking we after clicking the button, we expect to see the spinner saving this one.
And for this one, we are going to set the property for the app button.
It has it has this API progress.
And basically we are going to assign our class API progress property to it.
So whenever we click the button, we are changing the API progress to through right here and it's going
to be making this app button to show the spinner as well.
So saving this one.
And the tests are pressing.
Now, before finishing this part, let's handle the error cases of the authentication.
So I'm just going to add the next test.
So in the sign up case we have the cases like the sign of success or we were displaying a message to
user, but in logging we will not have that one.
Instead, we are going to have the error case.
We will only have the error case.
So like in this test for the sign up, we are showing the validation errors, but we are not going to
have a backhand validation for the login.
We will have a client side validation, but we will do that in the next part.
But we can receive authentication failures from the can.
So we are going to handle that case in this in this implementation.
So just copying this validation error case from the sign up component and pasting here, we will change
the description and the details a bit.
So it displays, let's say,
error.
After summit failure.
So this is the test and the request will be going to this endpoint one zero odd.
Then as a response this time we are not going to receive a validation errors, but let's say we will
just return.
Object, having a message saying incorrect credentials and this kind of errors for the authentication
errors, we should be having the status code of 401.
And the type of this and the text is authorized.
So we are updating the UI and let's query login page.
We are going to look for an alert component this time because we will show an error to user in the alert
component.
And let's query it like this and let's say this is error and it takes content will be the content we
are receiving in this message in the API response.
So saving this one.
So this is failing now in the logging component.
We need to handle the subscription here.
At the moment we don't care about the success or error responses, but now we need to.
So for a subscription passing an object having next this is for success case.
At the moment we do nothing about it.
So having an empty object here, having an empty function here, and for the error cases we will have
this error error property which is a function, let's say it's going to be taking the error response.
And in this function we are going to take the error from response body, but we need to keep it in the
components.
So let's say we have this error type string and we don't need to define type.
Let's go with initial value like this.
So this is already a string.
So we are going to take the error message coming from this error and we do that by taking error error
and then we can access to the message.
So this is the response we are receiving.
And in the response body we have the message like this.
So this is the response body and we are accessing to the message property in it.
So let's assign it to this error like this.
Now we have the error and let's display the error conditionally in the template.
So right after these inputs, let's have, let's use our app load component and let's display this conditionally.
If there is a value for the error, then we are going to display that error.
And let's also make sure the type will be danger for indicating the error cases.
So in double card braces, let's pass the error.
So the error text we are receiving from back end will be visible in this component.
So let's say these changes.
And the tests are passing.
Let's test this one on browser.
So let's fill the form with random credentials.
Like feeling like this.
The button is enabled.
Like if I clear it.
Like if one of them is not filled, then the button is disabled.
So as soon as I feel this, it is enabled.
And when I click to login here we are seeing the invalid credentials.
It is really sending the request to backend and Hpakant is running and it is returning the the invalid
credentials.
Also we have the spinner visibility, but we didn't hide the spinner after we received the response
from back and we don't implement that case yet.
So basically the button is disabled as soon as we click it.
The spinner is visible and we are receiving error, then we are showing the error to user.
So let's add the last test and that's for the the visibility of the spinner.
And we also have the same test in the signup component as well.
So just copying the test from sign up component and pasting.
Here.
This is for both ends point.
And I'm just going to copy request flash from the previous test.
And this is login page.
So we are handling the response, updating the UI and India and we are expecting this status spinner
to be gone saving.
So this is failing.
We also see it on the browser test or manual test.
So we are showing the spinner based on this API progress and we are not updating the API progress after
we received the error.
So the solution is here, we are going to just set this API progress to false because the progress is
completed saving this one.
And the tests are passing and if we test it one more time on browser filling the form.
And here we see the spinner is gone after we received the response.